So here, we're just going to start
going through the grammar of things
you can do with SQL.
I'm going to try and just give you kind of
a high level overview of here's a bunch of
really cool stuff you can do with SQL.
And then you're gonna
learn to kind of mix and
match all these things to fit
the the querying needs that you have.
So we saw the first one already
a select star from users.
Pretty straightforward there.
Yeah, let's do that first.
So I want everyone to come
to this page right now.
Complete intro to databases Querying
PostgreSQL or just to show you here.
It's this one here, 3 on SQL.
And it says click here for
a sample set of tables.
So what this is, this is an extremely
long SQL query are actually several.
And we're gonna run that it's gonna put
a bunch of sample data into our database.
So if you click on that,
Firefox is just gonna say,
where do you want me to save this?
I'm just gonna say open this
with Visual Studio code.
And you can see here, this is actually
6,000 lines of something of SQL.
So what this is gonna do is,
it's going to drop all these
tables if they exist, right?
So it's actually going to drop
our users table for us, and
then it's going to recreate it.
Only reason it does that is you can re-run
this at any time, it'll always work.
It's not gonna complain at you.
So if you accidentally drop
one of your tables for fun,
you can rerun this at any time,
this will fix everything, I promise.
So, there are easier fancy ways
of just feeding a directly an SQL
file to Postgres.
I'm much too lazy to
show you how to do that.
So I'm just going to command
A command C or control A control C.
So I'm going to copy and
paste this directly into this and paste.
And you can see,
this will take maybe about a minute.
It's a lot of ask about
flying at your database.
But it's going to insert like 2500
records into your database so
that we can kind of play
around with a bunch of these.
In the interim, while this is doing that,
we're going to be talking about
all the different ways that
you can query Postgres.
So we're going to do selects,
and inserts and updates, and
limits and all that kind of stuff.
So relatively the same sort of
things we learned about Mongo.
We're gonna learn today.
To the unlike the analogous
behaviors here in Postgres, and
depending on how fast your computer is,
and how fast it is copying and
pasting to Docker, this might take,
you know, a minute or so.
You can see here, mine's still going.
There we go.
So mine's all done now.
So if I do \d,
you can see here I should have a boards.
Comments, rich content and users.
So I have four tables that we're going
to be playing around with today.
And we'll go over each one of them for
right now we're only gonna
be talking about users.
And then we'll get into the other
ones here in just a second.
So we did SELECT* from users.
If you do this right now,
we're gonna get a lot of users.
It's actually going to give you
a more buffer more as a Linux program
of all of your users.
That's a lot.
I don't want to do that right now.
So, but that's what that will
d we'll it be more useful?
Can I just grab 10 instead of all of them,
well same way with Mongo you can
do limit who you can do limit ten.
Let's even do the lesson
that will do limit five.
So, this will grab the first
five records in our database.
So, by the way, these are all made up
fake emails made up fake names and
stuff like that.
So yeah.
Some of them will have last logins.
You can see a bunch of these
don't have last login.
Yeah, limit that's a good one.
If you know exactly how many
records you want to do, grab,
let's do where well let's
do projection next.
So we're doing star right here.
So project objection is just
what we were showing before.
You can do let's select username and
full name from users limiting
five you can see here this will
only return this which is
obviously a lot easier to read.
Alright, let's do some where.
So let's select username, email user ID.
From users where user ID equals.
User ID equals 150.
So again, this is not again pretty
easy to read the order here
is actually quite important.
You must do the select.
There's a specific order that
these clauses have to come in.
And when l say clause this is a clause,
this is a clause, that's a clause right.
So they do have to come
in a specific order.
We can see here this will select exactly
one row where the user ID is 150, and
we get this one.